# Project-
project
In this, for classifying the waste images Stanford TrashNet dataset is used. Then these images are preprocessed and fed into the CNN, which learns to extract high-level features and patterns specific to waste material classification. Then, the fully connected layers or the last layer of the CNN is removed or transferred and added with pre-trained network namely InceptionResNetV2, ResNet50, Vgg19 and DenseNet201 and performs fine-tuning on the waste dataset. By reusing these pre-trained models, the computational cost and data requirements for training a CNN from scratch are significantly reduced. In this, libraries such as NumPy, pandas, matplotlib, CV2, Keras, pillow, glob are used. 
Here, 
•	NumPy is a Python library used to handling and processing image data by providing efficient arrays and mathematical functions, allowing manipulation of pixel values, resizing.
•	Pandas is a Python library primarily used for data manipulation and analysis. In this work, pandas is used to loading metadata (from dataset), data pre-processing. In this the input data is crucial for training and validation in image classification models. So, the data are pre-processed before the images are fed into the classification stage. 
•	Matplotlib is used to visualize the output data in graphical representation.
•	CV2 is a OpenCV (Open-Source Computer Vision Library) library used for computer vision tasks. It provides various functionalities for image and video processing, including reading, writing, manipulating, and analyzing images.
•	Glob can be used to traverse through directories containing images for different classes, extract those images file paths, load and preprocess the images using the pil library, and then store them in lists for further processing for training a CNN model for image classification.
•	Pillow is used to load images into Python from various file formats, and then these images can be processed, resized, cropped, or converted into formats suitable for further processing or feeding into CNN models.
•	Keras is a high-level neural network, that is commonly used for building and training neural network models provides an easy-to-use interface for creating deep learning models (CNN), for image classification tasks. In this, Keras is used to access the pre-trained models such as InceptionResNetV2, ResNet50 and DenseNet201.
